.\" This file Copyright 2000 Christian Garbs <mitch@uni.de>
.\" 
.\" It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\" any higher version.  See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\" for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.\"
.\" As I don't have a clue of the Nroff format, this document is based
.\" on the top(1) man page which is Copyright 1992 Robert J. Nation 
.\" (nation@rocket.sanders.lockheed.com) and was afterwards modified
.\" on 1994/04/25 by Michael Shields <mjshield@nyx.cs.du.edu> and on
.\" 1996/01/27 by Helmut Geyer.
.
.de It
.TP 0.5i
.B "\\$1 "
..
.TH JOYDRC 5 "Oct 11 2000" "v0.2.2"
.SH NAME
.B joydrc
\- configuration file for the joystick daemon
.B joyd
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
All configuration of
.B joyd
is done in the configuration file or in the installation
defaults. There should be some example configuration files 
installed under
.B /usr/local/doc/joyd
for you to look at and test.
.PP
In
.B joyd
every movement of your stick and every button corresponds to a
number. It works like this:
.PP
.ft CW
  number  movement
 -----------------------------------------
     1    axis 1 low  value   (left)
     2    axis 1 high value   (right)
     4    axis 2 low  value   (down)
     8    axis 2 high value   (up)
    16    axis 3 low  value
    32    axis 3 high value
    64    axis 4 low  value
  [...]
.ft CW
.PP
.ft CW
  number  button
 ---------------------------
     1     Button 1
     2     Button 2
     4     Button 3
     8     Button 4
    16     Button 5
  [...]
.ft CW
.PP
To get a combination of two buttons or axes, just add their
numbers. For example 5 would mean buttons 1 and 5 (or left and down,
respectively).
.PP
If you use an analog device,
.B joyd
will have to decide when an axis has reached it's low or high
value. The joystick will give back a value between \-32768 and 32767
and
.B joyd
will compare it to two calibration variables. If the value is lower
than the minimum calibration then it is considered as "low", if the
value is higher than the maximum calibration then it is considered as
"high". By changing these values, you can make your joystick act more
(or less) sensitively.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
A configuration file is a plain ascii file. Lines beginning with # are
treated as comments. Keep in mind that there has to be a line feed
after the last line.
.PP
A configuration file is divided into three sections. The first section
is started by
.B [general]
.PP
The following variables can be set:
.It "calmin n"
The default minimum calibration is set to n.
.It "calmax n"
The default maximum calibration is set to n.
.It "config s"
This sets the configuration file to s. Only useful when you plan
to reread the configuration file.
.It "daemon b"
This controls whether joyd will switch to daemon (background) mode (1)
or not (0).
.It "debug b"
This sets the verbosity of status messages. 0 means be quiet, 1
enables some warnings, 2 shows many status informations and 3 is used
for debugging.
.It "device s"
This sets the device where the joystick is located to s.
.It "exit s"
This sets the command string that can be used to exit joyd to s.
.It "reread s"
This sets the command string to reread the configuration file to n.
.It "shift n"
The button(s) n will be used in shift mode.
.It "stdout b"
.B joyd
will show its messages in stdout (1) or not (0).
.It "syslog b"
.B joyd
will show its messages in the syslog (1) or not (0).
.PP
The next section is the
.B [calibration]
section. It contains lines with two numerical arguments: minimum and
maximum calibration for each axis (the first line corresponds to axis
1, the second to axis 2 and so forth).
.PP
If your joystick has more axes than there are in this section, the
other axes will use the
.B calmin
and
.B calmax
default values.
.PP
The last section is the
.B [actions]
section. It binds the commands to the joystick. The lines are in the
format
.PP
.ft CW
  a	b	c
.ft CW
.PP
Where
.B a
is the number of the axes and
.B b
the number of the buttons (see above) that should trigger the command.
.B c
is the command string to be executed. The command should have a
complete path. I you want to execute a command in the background, then
append an \& to it (for example:
.B /usr/bin/updatedb &
). When a command is not executed in background,
.B joyd
will be blocked until the command is finished.
.PP
If
.B c
is the string that you defined as
.B exit
in the general section,
.B joyd
will exit when the button/axis condition is true. If
.B c
is the
.B reread
string, then
.B joyd
will reread it's configuration file. See the example configuration
file
.B joydrc.exit
for this.
.PP
Here is an example:
.PP
.ft CW
  1	2	/bin/echo Hello
.ft CW
.PP
This will print
.B Hello
when you pull your joystick left (
.B a
=1) and press your 2nd button (
.B b
=2).
.PP
You can bind multiple commands to one combination of axes/buttons. The
commands are then executed in the order they appear in the
configuration file.
.
.SH "DEFAULT VALUES"
If you omit some of the options above, joyd will use these default
values:
.PP
.ft CW
 calmin -16384
 calmax 16383
 daemon 0
 debug  1
 device /dev/js0
 exit   $exit$
 reread $reread$
 shift  0
 stdout 1
 syslog 0
.ft CW
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR joyd(1)
.
.\"SH
.\"BUGS
.\".
.SH AUTHOR
.B joyd
was written by Christian Garbs <mitch@uni.de>. Please send bug reports
to him.
